The Grafin's two elder sons had made deplorable marriages. It was, observed Clovis, a family habit. The youngest boy, Wratislav, who was the black sheep of a rather greyish family, had as yet made no marriage at all.
«There is certainly this much to be said for viciousness,» said the Grafin, «it keeps boys out of mischief».
«Does it?» asked the Baroness Sophie, not by way of questioning the statement, but with a painstaking effort to talk intelligently. It was the one matter in which she attempted to override the decrees of Providence, which had obviously never intended that she should talk otherwise than inanely.
«I don't know why I shouldn't talk cleverly,» she would complain; «my mother was considered a brilliant conversationalist».
«These things have a way of skipping one generation,» said the Grafin.


«Elsa isn't a beggar!»

«Not financially, or I shouldn't have suggested the match. But she's getting on, you know, and has no pretensions to brains or looks or anything of that sort».


[...]

«Probably three-quarters of them are. But what of it? You don't want an archangel for a son-in-law».
«I don't want Wratislav. My poor Elsa would be miserable with him».
«A little misery wouldn't matter very much with her; it would go so well with the way she does her hair, and if she couldn't get on with Wratislav she could always go and do good among the poor».
The Baroness picked up a framed photograph from the table.
«He certainly is very handsome,» she said doubtfully; adding even more doubtfully, «I dare say dear Elsa might reform him».


«Did they seem much wrapped up in each other?»

«I always think it goes with her complexion».
«Unfortunately it doesn't. It stays with it. Ugh. Don't forget, you're lunching with me on Thursday».


«Kolossal!»

«Such a thing as that no one in our family has ever done,» gasped the Baroness.
«Perhaps he didn't appeal to them in the same way» suggested the Grafin judicially.


[...]

«For Mexico, I believe».


[...]

«I didn't know Wratislav had a conscience».
«My dear Sophie, he hasn't. 
