Once upon a time an artist who had painted a small and very beautiful picture placed it so that he could see it in the mirror. He said, «This doubles the distance and softens it, and it is twice as lovely as it was before».
The animals out in the woods heard of this through the housecat, who was greatly admired by them because he was so learned, and so refined and civilized, and so polite and high-bred, and could tell them so much which they didn't know before, and were not certain about afterward. 

«What is it that makes it so beautiful?»

«It is the looks of it,» said the cat.


«What is a mirror?»

«It is a hole in the wall,» said the cat. «You look in it, and there you see the picture, and it is so dainty and charming and ethereal and inspiring in its unimaginable beauty that your head turns round and round, and you almost swoon with ecstasy».
The ass had not said anything as yet; he now began to throw doubts. He said there had never been anything as beautiful as this before, and probably wasn't now. He said that when it took a whole basketful of sesquipedalian adjectives to whoop up a thing of beauty, it was time for suspicion.
It was easy to see that these doubts were having an effect upon the animals, so the cat went off offended. The subject was dropped for a couple of days, but in the meantime curiosity was taking a fresh start, and there was a revival of interest perceptible. 

The elephant asked

«I saw it good and clear, O Hathi, King of Beasts. I was so close that I touched noses with it».
«This is very strange,» said the elephant; «the cat was always truthful before--as far as we could make out. Let another witness try. Go, Baloo, look in the hole, and come and report».
So the bear went. 
«Both the cat and the ass have lied; there was nothing in the hole but a bear».
Great was the surprise and puzzlement of the animals. Each was now anxious to make the test himself and get at the straight truth. The elephant sent them one at a time.
First, the cow. 

MORAL, BY THE CAT

You can find in a text whatever you bring, if you will stand between it and the mirror of your imagination. 
