God, say they, at first made men so that they had no need to work: they needed neither houses, nor clothes, nor food, and they all lived till they were a hundred, and did not know what illness was.

When, after some time, God looked to see how people were living, he saw that instead of being happy in their life, they had quarrelled with one another, and, each caring for himself, had brought matters to such a pass that far from enjoying life, they cursed it.

Then God said to himself: "This comes of their living separately, each for himself." And to change this state of things, God so arranged matters that it became impossible for people to live without working.

"Work will bring them together," thought God.

"They cannot make their tools, prepare and transport their timber, build their houses, sow and gather their harvests, spin and weave, and make their clothes, each one alone by himself." "It will make them understand that the more heartily they work together, the more they will have and the better they will live; and this will unite them." Time passed on, and again God came to see how men were living, and whether they were now happy.

Each group tried to snatch work from other groups, and they hindered one another, wasting time and strength in their struggles, so that things went ill with them all.

When God returned to see how people were living, he saw that their life was as bad as ever.

Having seen all this, God, to mend matters, decided to make use of one last means; he sent all kinds of sickness among men.

Again God went away, but when He came back to see how men lived now that they were subject to sicknesses, he saw that their life was worse even than before.

The very sickness that in God's purpose should have united men, had divided them more than ever.

Then God said to Himself: "If even this means will not bring men to understand wherein their happiness lies, let them be taught by suffering." And God left men to themselves.

Left to themselves, men lived long before they understood that they all ought to, and might be, happy.

Only in the very latest times have a few of them begun to understand that work ought not to be a bugbear to some and like galley-slavery for others, but should be a common and happy occupation, uniting all men.