The Grafin's two elder sons had made deplorable marriages.

"There is certainly this much to be said for viciousness," said the Grafin, "It keeps boys out of mischief." "Does it?" asked the Baroness Sophie, not by way of questioning the statement, but with a painstaking effort to talk intelligently.

"I don't know why I shouldn't talk cleverly," she would complain; "My mother was considered a brilliant conversationalist." "These things have a way of skipping one generation," said the Grafin.

"Elsa said something quite clever on Thursday about the Triple Alliance. Something about it being like a paper umbrella, that was all right as long as you didn't take it out in the rain. It's not every one who could say that." "Every one has said it; at least every one that I know. But then I know very few people." "I don't think you're particularly agreeable today." "I never am. Haven't you noticed that women with a really perfect profile like mine are seldom even moderately agreeable?" "I don't think your profile is so perfect as all that," said the Baroness.

"My dear Sophie," said the Grafin sweetly, "That isn't in the least bit clever; but you do try so hard that I suppose I oughtn't to discourage you. Tell me something: has it ever occurred to you that Elsa would do very well for Wratislav? It's time he married somebody, and why not Elsa?" "Elsa marry that dreadful boy!" gasped the Baroness.

"Beggars can't be choosers," observed the Grafin.

"He certainly is very handsome," she said doubtfully; adding even more doubtfully, "I dare say dear Elsa might reform him." The Grafin had the presence of mind to laugh in the right key.

Three weeks later the Grafin bore down upon the Baroness Sophie in a foreign bookseller's shop in the Graben, where she was, possibly, buying books of devotion, though it was the wrong counter for them.

"I've just left the dear children at the Rodenstahls'," was the Grafin's greeting.

"Something remarkable, to make you late for a meal," said the Grafin.

"Perhaps he didn't appeal to them in the same way" suggested the Grafin judicially.
